*The Soul of Socrates* by Nalin Ranasinghe. These excerpts come from a chapter on the *Symposium*, but Ranasinghe argues that the *Phaedrus* is intricately connected with it, particularly in Alcibiades' appearance and story of his relationship with Socrates:

> Plato suggests that it was Alcibiades who first awakened eros in Socrates and made him set foot on Diotima's ladder. This encounter is guardedly recalled in the *Phaedrus* when Socrates makes his great palinode [DC: speech of correction, Socrates' second speech in the dialogue] to eros. By comparing the palinode with Diotima's speech in the *Symposium* and the *First Alcibiades*, we shall see that Socrates is in fact describing *his* version of the events that Alcibiades has recounted in his speech about Socrates. Ultimately, Alcibiades means no more to Socrates than Nausicaa did to Odysseus, yet the palinode in the *Phaedrus* shows that just as Odysseus promises to remember the youthful beauty who saved him from the waves, Socrates cannot forget the divine emissary who saved him from the clouds of cosmology. (p. 163)

> We can now see why we should encounter Socrates outside the city. If we were to ask him the question he asked Phaedrus at the beginning of this dialogue, "Where are you going and where have you come from?" (227a), Socrates' ironic answer would surely be that he is descending from the clouds to enter the city. He might even add, sotto voce, that he is bringing philosophy with him under his cloak. Although his interlocutor is Phaedrus, just as the beloved reminds the lover of his god, so too is Socrates truly reminded of his encounter with Alcibiades when he delivers the palinode before Phaedrus. Socrates' subsequent career could be seen as an attempt to purify himself from his involuntary but nevertheless arrogant disregard for eros. (p. 164)

> In Aristophanic terms, heavenly *pteros* and bodily eros are essentially opposed: the one is a repetition of the tragic career of the circle-men beyond the cave; while the other is its comic remedy. This quarrel between comedy and tragedy is what Socrates urges Aristophanes and Agathon to resolve at the very end of the *Symposium* (223d); he will try to carry out this resolution himself in the *Phaedrus*. (p. 166)

> Socrates speaks of horses in the *Phaedrus*; his task is to reconcile the very different muses of comedy and tragedy. His first speech is made *qua* the white horse. It is clearly inspired by Phaedrus himself who both resembles the steed and embodies the limitations of its perspective. As I suggested, Socrates made his first speech as the cosmologist and scientist that he was before eros brought him down from the clouds and into the city. It is the erotically transformed Socrates who, in the palinode, is not ashamed to depict himself as the black horse. His ultimate aim, however, is to point Phaedrus toward a synthesis that integrates both natures/genres. The erotic power of the unruly horse is indispensable for any ascent to the Hyper-Uranian realm of true beauty. Only Socrates represents this position. (p. 166)